Part A – Application Load Balancer with 2 EC2 instances
Launch EC2 Instance #1: EC2 Console → Launch Instance → Name: webserver-1, AMI: Amazon Linux 2, Type: t2.micro.
Security Group: allow SSH (22) + HTTP (80 from 0.0.0.0/0) → Launch with key pair.
Connect to instance and run:
yum update -y
yum install httpd -y
systemctl start httpd
systemctl enable httpd
echo "This is Server 1" > /var/www/html/index.html
Launch EC2 Instance #2: Repeat with Name: webserver-2 and script:
yum update -y
yum install httpd -y
systemctl start httpd
systemctl enable httpd
echo "This is Server 2" > /var/www/html/index.html
Security Group for LB: EC2 → Security Groups → Create: name lb-sg, allow HTTP 80.
EC2 → Load Balancers → Create Load Balancer → Application Load Balancer.
Name: my-alb, Scheme: Internet-facing, IP: IPv4, Listener: HTTP 80.
Select default VPC, select subnets → choose lb-sg security group.
Create Target Group: Name web-servers-tg, Type: Instance, Protocol: HTTP, Port: 80.
Register Targets: select both EC2 instances → Include as pending → Register.
Review → Create Load Balancer.
Copy ALB DNS name → paste in browser → refresh multiple times → alternates between Server 1 and Server 2.
Part B: Create Application Load Balancer
Step 1: Go to EC2 → Load Balancers → Create Load Balancer → Application Load Balancer.
Step 2: Name the ALB (e.g., my-alb). Scheme: Internet-facing. Select at least 2 Availability Zones.
Step 3: Configure a Security Group: allow HTTP port 80 from anywhere.
Step 4: Create a Target Group: type Instances, protocol HTTP, port 80. Health check path: /.
Step 5: Register both webserver-1 and webserver-2 as targets. Click Include as pending. Create target group.
Step 6: Back in the ALB setup, select your Target Group as listener. Click Create Load Balancer.
Step 7: Copy the ALB DNS Name from the Load Balancer description tab.
Step 8: Paste it in a browser — you should see either WebServer-1 or WebServer-2. Refresh multiple times — traffic alternates between instances.

Part C: Auto Scaling Group
Step 1: Go to EC2 → AMIs → Create AMI from one of your configured web server instances. Name it my-webserver-AMI. Wait for status: available.
Step 2: Go to EC2 → Launch Templates → Create Launch Template. Name: my-launch-template. Set AMI, instance type (t2.micro), key pair, and security group.
Step 3: Go to EC2 → Auto Scaling Groups → Create Auto Scaling Group. Name: webserver-asg.
Step 4: Select your launch template. Click Next.
Step 5: Select your VPC and all AZ subnets. Click Next.
Step 6: Attach to an existing Load Balancer — select your ALB. Click Next.
Step 7: Set Desired: 2, Minimum: 1, Maximum: 4. Click Next → review → Create Auto Scaling Group.
Step 8: Go to Load Balancers → select your ALB and verify instances are healthy. Check Auto Scaling Group → Instances tab to confirm instances are running.
Step 9: Terminate one instance manually — the Auto Scaling Group will automatically launch a replacement.
